The passage below is accompanied by a set of questions. Choose the best answer to each question.
India as a country has been bestowed with several nomenclatures. Right from unity in diversity to
birthplace of Hinduism and Sanskrit, the land has always been admired and revered for its rich
cultural legacy and variety that it offers. India is a story, a legend, folklore and an anecdote in itself. It
needs no introduction, no specific mention. It has continued to thrive for centuries and there are
bright chances of it being the next super power. The country has always nourished numerous
cultures, traditions and religions. All the major religions thrive in India and none of them have ever
felt insecure or unprotected. That’s the beauty of the land.
Go to any part of rich India and you will find numerous temple and shrines and all of them contain
their own unique stories. We have always believed in beautiful and fascinating description of Indian
Gods and Goddesses. Many stories have been told and retold in different fashions about how
particular God originated in a particular place. All the descriptions of deities are believable and they
convey just one message of Good winning over the evil. Gods in Indian religion have always fought
monsters and even taken human forms to conquer evils in convincing manner. Right from north India
to southern and western sttes, everywhere one can find plenty of amazing tales about our religion
and sustenance over the centuries. The essence remains the same, the versions differ.
Indian mythology has always been popular among masses. Its effect can be seen from different
religious functions and tales told to the kids by their grandma. The virtues have always been
exemplified by the conduct of the Gods. Many present day symbols have been born from our
mythology and religious beliefs. For example, Om or Swastika or Trishul etc have always been
revered. Religious beliefs are in tune with our traditional way of living and we as staunch believers
still believe in following the rules and customs. When you hear of stories about our mythological
characters like Ram, Sita, Hanuman, Ravana, Ganesha, Krishna and Bhima etc you get to know about
what the essence of India is made of. These characters are now being used in animation movies that
will be further helpful in making new generation aware of India’s famous religions and mythology.
Religion and mythology is no less than precious treasure that must be respected and preserved. India
is a story in itself. There have been civilizations and archaeological facts that are constantly being
researched about the birth place of Hindu Gods and Goddesses. Though many times there are fake
inventions, there seems a lot of history in the shrines and temples in India. Each depiction of God
and villains seems appropriate with the truth winning over the evil. Each time and place has the new
emergence of a Hindu God who takes care of the three worlds and slays the evil. A swastika or an Om
is a revered sign and mentioned as prosperity. There are many symbols like the Trishul or the Trident
which is not displayed everywhere as it is considered aggressive. It is customary to smear ash or
sandalwood powder in the forehead as it cools the mind. These are beliefs turned to tradition and
most of us follow the rules and codes. The latest generation is quite inquisitive about facts yet totally appreciates the quests of Lord Rama, the slaying of the ten headed Ravana, the piousness of Sita and
the loyalty of Hanuman. Animation flicks are being created showing characters like Gathotkach the
son of Bhima, Hanuman and Ganesha. Though these are kid specials, this would be the best way to
teach them about Gods and religion. Dashavatar is a wonderful combination of story and the
magnanimous nature of Lord Vishnu. Each avatar or creation has a set nature and character. It is
mind blowing to see the story narration and is well received by the all of us. Our art and culture have
direct relation with the mythology. The Shravan month is a holy time where people get religiously
and maintain fasting. This is also the time for the beginning of all festivals. Magic or splendour is
what we see at the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in India. The Durga Puja is another feat. South
traditions relate to Lord Muruga( Karthik) or Lord Ayyappa. The shrine of Vaishnodevi in Jammu
involves climbing a steep mountain of 14 kilometers bent and the mission seems accomplished once
we see the holy pind. People hold allegiance and complete belief in miracles when life challenges
them. Mythology is the treasure of Indian religion and must be given to our progeny